# What is the data import wizard?

The Data Import Wizard is a custom DHIS2 application that helps you to; as the name suggests, import data into your DHIS 2 instance, from various sources. The sources you can import data from include:

1. Excel Spreadsheets
2. CSV files
3. JSON files
4. API Endpoints (Other systems or DHIS2 instances)
5. Go.DATA

The most recent version of the data import wizard (v2) has been improved to support the integration of DHIS2 with Go.DATA, but with bi-directional data import capabilities.

# How the Data Import Wizard works.
At the moment, we can import event data, aggregate data and organisation units. There are pages within the application that correspond to the kind of data you want to import, that is; <kbd>Tracker</kbd>, <kbd>Aggregate</kbd> and <kbd>Organisation</kbd>.

- [:book: Tracker *Import data into tracker or event program.*](/iwizard/tracker)
- [:heavy_plus_sign: Aggregate *Import aggregate data.*](/iwizard/aggregate)
- [:hospital: Organisation *Import organisation units.*](/iwizard/organisation)
- [:spiral_calendar: Schedule *Schedule data import using saved mapping.*](/iwizard/schedule)

{.links-list}

# Components
The data import wizard is comprised of the following tools and components.

| Tool/Component | Description | Repository |
|----------|----------|----------|
| Data Import Wizard Core      | The core Data Import Wizard custom DHIS2 application      |    [data-import-wizard-utils](https://github.com/HISP-Uganda/data-import-wizard-utils.git)  |
| Data Import Wizard Utils      | Reusable utilities for both the core and scheduler for the Data Import Wizard      |   [data-import-wizard-v2](https://github.com/HISP-Uganda/data-import-wizard-v2.git)   |
| Scheduler      | The scheduler for importing data using mappings generated by the Data Import Wizard custom application      | [data-import-wizard-scheduler](https://github.com/HISP-Uganda/data-import-wizard-scheduler.git)     |
{.dense}

# Data import steps

For each type of import, you go through the following steps to accomplish the import process. 
1. Add source system configuration
2. Define your destination (could be DHIS 2 or other system)
3. Define a mapping for your metadata. What objects need to be mapped in both systems
4. Utilize generated mapping to import the data. 

